Nishant Dougall (They / Them)
Northcote, VIC, 3070
0412202666, nishantdougall@gmail.com
Support Worker | Capricorn | Trauma-informed
Queer, neurodivergent, gender-diverse POC with lived experience (PLHIV/LGBTQIA+) and 4+ years in community services, including 2+ years volunteering with Thorne Harbour Health in SOPV Outreach and Harm Reduction Peer Support Worker roles. Deeply appreciative of intersectionality and the impacts on marginalised cohorts. Proven ability to build rapport with diverse individuals and create a safe, inclusive space for clients that is free of judgement and shame. Excel in roles requiring empathy and strengths-based support. Looking to contribute to organisations like Thorne Harbour Health, working to dismantle systemic injustices and make a tangible impact on marginalised and vulnerable people in my community..


KEY SKILLS
Client care and psychosocial support: empathy & compassion, client-centered strengths-based practice, harm minimisation, trauma-informed, intersectionality, social determinants of health, social justice, harm reduction, trauma-informed
Interpersonal and communication skills: Active listening, rapport building, empathy, collaboration, conflict resolution, written and verbal communication.
Organisational & administrative skills: problem-solving, conflict resolution,time management & organisational skills, collaboration, priority setting, resilience, data collection, Client record management, priority setting.
Technical skills: case management, project management, computer skills, data-entry, record keeping
EXPERIENCE
Headspace National, Naarm - Intern - Multicultural Practice Team
March 2024 - October 2024
* Completed internship on the diversity and inclusion team responsible for culturally responsive practice across the headspace network of approx 150 sites nationally
* Managed the International Students Experience Project, facilitating six focus groups with over 36 international students from diverse backgrounds to identify needs.
* Developed and drafted culturally appropriate, culturally sensitive resources for national delivery.
Diamond Valley Community Support - Client Support Worker
March 2022 - March 2024
* Provided emergency aid and advocacy services to individuals in crisis, prioritizing client privacy and dignity.
* Conducted over 400 client interviews to assess and evaluate needs, develop appropriate support responses, and establish internal and external referral pathways.
* Fostered a safe, person-centered, and strengths-based environment that promoted empowerment and well-being.
* Demonstrated sensitivity to the issues and needs of diverse communities, including the social and cultural impacts of various challenges.
Thorne Harbour Health, Naarm - Rainbow Connection Delivery Volunteer
March 2020 - September 2020
* Delivered over 2,000 food support packages to socially isolated and immunocompromised LGBTQIA+ clients as part of the Positive Living Centre's Rainbow Connect Food Delivery program.
* Effectively managed client visits and communications to confirm delivery arrangements, ensuring timely and efficient delivery of essential support.
Thorne Harbour Health, Naarm - SMART Recovery Facilitator
December 2019 - November 2020
* Facilitated peer support fortnightly meetings regarding AOD issues, using lived experience to help clients learn skills and strategies using harm reduction framework.
* Created a safe and supportive environment for clients on their recovery journey, covering topics including lapses and relapses, sleep, nutrition, HIV, sex, mental health, and mindfulness.
Thorne Harbour Health, Naarm - Sex-on-premises Venue (SOPV) Outreach
December 2018 - November 2019
* Provided sexual health and HIV support to clients at Sex-on-Premises Venues (SOPVs).
* Built rapport and trust with people who use drugs regularly in a high-pressure setting.
Royal Bank of Scotland London - Project Manager
January 2016 - September 2018
Independent Television News (ITN) London - Business Analyst
June 2014 - December 2015
National Australia Bank, Naarm - Project Analyst
January 2011 - January 2014
National Australia Bank, Naarm - Graduate Program - Business Bank
January /2009 - January 2011
EDUCATION
Melbourne Polytechnic - Diploma of Community Services (2024)
Monash University - Master of Finance (2008)
Qld University of Technology - Bachelor of Business (Marketing) (2005)
CERTIFICATIONS
Odyssey Institute - Alcohol and Other Drug Skill Set (current)
SMART Recovery Australia - Peer Support Facilitator Training (2018)
Mental Health First Aid Australia - Mental Health First Aid (2021)
VicRoads - Victorian Driver's Licence (2006)